Walk them back in the previous videos we learn how daquiri is created using doc Rafal and it provides
a suitable environment in which our application services can run.
So hypothetically we can use it for our node server we can use it for our postgresql database whatever
we want all of our services.
Now there is a nother tool that you actually installed when you got docker called docker compose and
this is used to orchestrate our application services during development.
So this is a tool that you mostly are going to use during development but if you remember Brunos request
is to have our postscripts and our server all running from one command without us having to set up a
server and a database separately.
And Doc decompose allows you to compose these darker pieces these different services so that during
development you can do these things very easily.
Remember our diagram here.
Well we're going to use Dharker compose even though we've used Dharker for our server.
We're going to now use dock or compose to create a container that contains all of these things.
We're going to focus on the API server and the database.
And in these sessions and JWT section we're going to also include the rattus service which will be a
lot of fun and again docking Limbo's orchestrates our application services and it's going to be really
really Farnam when we get it to work.
So let's get to it now.
Just a heads up if he'd downloaded docker for Mac or dock or for Windows duck or compose already comes
with it.
If you installed it on Linux you actually need to go back to that page and install doc or compose separately.
So just a heads up there.
Now the way we can do this that is the way to combine both postscripts and our API server into a single
Daker command is to create something called a doc post-fight and a doc compose file.
Once again we created at a root directory of our project and it's going to be called docker compose
and it is a YAML for this just the file type that they use and you'll see that sublime tacks or your
editor is going to recognize certain syntax.
So again doc can both die YAML and I've created it and you can see over here that my text editor recognizes
this as a doc file or a doc or compose file.
Now this is what a ducker compost file is going to look like.
We first start off with the version that we want to use.
So in my case it'll be version 3.6 which is the latest.
Currently for me and down below we have something called services and these services are what we're
going to orchestrate.
That is we're going to have a backend API service a postscripts service and also later on a breadths
service.
And let's give it a name to our our first surface which is the back end.
API or we can call it smart brain
API.
Now we can give it different options and Dharker compose once again is sort of a configuration file
so you can find a lot of these online and online documentation.
But I'll show you some of the common ones.
One of them is the container name Rupes name and we can call the container backend because as our back
end of our application and by the way in YAML files indentations like this matter so again keep an eye
out on indentation in the way that I do things and then we also tell it.
And then we can also tell it what image to use from Doc or hub.
In our case we can just say node and what version do we use for node and the doc profile.
Let's just use this one.
We can also give it a command.
So that is remember how we we had to run NPM start here.
We can just give it a command when the service starts to or the containers created and installed to
run start we can also do things like working directory.
So working der and will say that this is in the app folder and we can also do Portes remember that when
we ran the command with port binding and poor forwarding we can just simply say that we want port three
thousand eight 3000 and then there's other options you have things like an environment that gives you
environmental variables if you want to perhaps pass down API keys.
We can do that as well but we're going to do that later on.
We also have things like links and that gives us what we want this service to link to.
So if we had post-crash for example we can say postscripts and a link to that postscripts service but
we don't have it right now so we don't need that.
And by the way we can also do things like built here in order to build our image and instead of using
this we can say that we want to build from our dock or file which exists
right here so it's going to build this service out of the profile.
So let's give that a go.
I'm going to actually remove that or comment it out for now.
And as I saw you comment out and YAML files for it to save and the way we conduct or compose and run
it let's exit out of here.
I'm going to clear this up we have more space and now run the Dr. compose command and we can simply
say that we won or compose built and that's going to read this fall that we just created and I wanted
to show you this area because it can get pretty cryptic with docker whenever you make a mistake and
actually specifically to YAML files.
In this case I get this ere saying that there's something wrong and I want to keep an eye out on the
syntax that you use and the spacing that you use for your YAML file.
In our case we needed to add a semicolon here or a call in here and you see that even the color changed
on my text editor and if you have a good text editor that helps you all with this it's really really
big because even if I make this mistake my AOD get this error.
Make sure that all your spacing is correct because that can be really really tricky.
Luckily Dr. compose has really good documentation and you can go online and find out how to structure
your posts.
Now let's run our or compose Builth command wants again.
And look at that.
It's starting to work.
It's grabbing from node version where we're creating our working directory.
So it's reading our doco file because we said built from our source which has the Daka file it's running
NPM install running the command and everything is built using this information.
So let's go over what just happened here.
Our instructions told the composer to create a service called smart brain API using the doc file we
created previously
we mapped the container to port 3000 so that we have access to it from our laptop and we also ran NPM
stirred in the container to start our service.
Now we haven't really done too much different than if we work with doc.
And when you only have one service you're most likely working with just the single Bachar file.
The only difference so far is that we build dock or compose to build our image instead of Dr..
Now let's run the next command.
Dr. compose run and see what happens.
All clear and I have to give it a the actual thing that we want to Consolo say docker compose
run with the container that we want to run in our case it's the smart brain API that we named.
So let's just grab that and run and we get a few errors here so let's debug it and we see that we're
looking for a path app.
I packaged Our Jason.
But if you remember in our doc file our working directory is this.
So just to get a point across with working directory lists try and copy this here instead of the dash
app that we created because that's where our packaged files exist.
If we run the build command again
and let me clear this and again run our Gawker kapos run smart brain API look at that.
We have our app running on port 3000.
And if we go to localhost and make sure we go to localhost 3000 here look at that.
It's working.
That's awesome.
Now let's get a bit of logging here because it's hard to see what's going on and whether we're actually
hitting the same point.
So I'm going to actually close this quickly and install a package we talked about in the security section
called Morgan and we're going to use Morgan here just for logging purposes and then add it over here
with Konst Morgan.
Want to require the package and it's a middleware.
So all we need to do is use it just like we do here.
And say Morgan and give it options of what kind of output we want.
I like the option combined and we'll see what that looks like.
So once again I'm going to run docker compose build to build from our Daker file.
You can see over here we're running NPM install and let me clear this right so we clear the terminal
we have the combined.
Now just in case you have any containers running in the background or you need to take down anything
you can just do docker composed down and bring back down any containers that you may have doesn't look
like we had any and we can just go Dr. compose build and this is getting annoying of building and putting
everything up.
We can actually run docker or compose up to bring up the container with a dash dash built and build.
You only have to do it at the beginning to build and run NPM install and everything that we've done
and the docker file.
But afterwards you can just keep running doc or compose up.
So far I run this it's building our backend and look at that it is now logging back and according to
the name that we gave the container you can see back and over here.
That's what this is.
And it ran NPM start and you see that we're now running on app port three thousand.
And if I go back now and I refresh look of that we just got a bit of logging.
If I do this three more times and refresh we see that we have logging.
So we've just created a docker compose file with our smart brain API.
But ideally we want to do more than that.
Ideally we can have postscripts year and Radice year.
So in the next video we're going to talk a little bit more about that.
I'll see in the next one.